# Node.js Diagnostics WG Meeting

* Date: 2017-11-01
* Issue: https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/108
* Recording: <http://youtu.be/MECJCE1Lavs>
* Minutes: <https://hangouts.google.com/hangouts/_/ytl/9xnPe4JxFYYwpgDfL9fmN4wxM6XVPgjn6yV1CSTHNXw=?eid=100598160817214911030&hl=en_US>


## Agenda:

### Integrate C++ AsyncHooks Embedder API with native abstraction [#13254](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/13254)

  - **Discussion Summary**
    - @mike-kaufman: work has been done for N-API, but not for NAN.
    - no other update
    
  - **Actions**: 
    - none

### Node.js Collaboration Summit diagnostics discussion minutes [#95](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/95)

  - **Discussion Summary**
    - @mhdawson: from Berlin, not Vancouver.
    - @mhdawson: Want to come up with Diagnostics guide - instructions for module authors on how to write modules in a way that they can be instrumented by many APMs.
    - @mike-kaufman: one proposal is node-diagnostic-channel (https://github.com/Microsoft/node-diagnostic-channel). Modules can write to the common node-diagnostic-channel, then APMs could subscribe and translate to their needed format.
    - @mhdawson: if we build consensus around node-diagnostic-channel would Microsoft donate it to the Foundation?
    - @mike-kaufman: we have to discuss, but yes probably. Our main goal is to get out of the business of monkey-patching other people's modules.
    - @mhdawson: Recommend getting together a meeting on this topic and do a presentation. See if we can build consensus. Open an issue, @-mention folks and nodejs/diagnostics and @kjin from Google.
    - @qard: some APM vendors are working on integrating the OpenTracing module. Should we consider that? Solarwinds, Elastic, Instana
    - @mhdawson: is that an alternative?
    - @joshgav: I think OpenTracing is about tracing distributed transactions but doesn't actually instrument modules. node-diagnostic-channel could include an OpenTracing publisher.
    - @qard: it can accept instrumentation from modules though.

  - **Actions**:
     - [ ] @mike-kaufman - Put together something together that summarizes differences between OpenTracing & node-diagnostic-channel 
     - [ ] @mike-kaufman - Put together something that walks people through node-diagnostic-channel to give them a better understanding of what's going on there.


### \[docs\] requesting comments on diagnostics-howtos project [#92](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/92)

  - **Discussion Summary**
    - @naugtur: Offer instructions for intermediate developers to learn how to diagnose Node.js issues. Seeking feedback.
    - @mike-kaufman: How to best submit?
    - @mhdawson: Could go in Diagnostics, or would it go better in nodejs/node (@joshgav: or nodejs/nodejs.org)?
    - @jkrems: Should we ask for a technical writer from Foundation? 
    - @mhdawson: Never done that, we could ask.
    - @jkrems: Could start by updating guides at https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs.org/tree/master/locale/en/docs, e.g. https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs.org/blob/c8baa35c5b752fa7151da4ea22fab0b493f6a997/locale/en/docs/guides/simple-profiling.md.

  - **Actions**:
    - [ ] @jkrems - open issue in TSC repo to see if this can get budge.
    - [ ] @naugtur  - create a PR for one doc to go into in nodejs/nodejs.org guides, take feedback from that & move forward w/ additional docs.
    - [x] @mike-kaufman - Open issue in CommComms about how we get help w/ tech writing (https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/163)

### \[trace_event\] tracking issue [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/84)

  - **Discussion Summary**
    - @kjin: Want to discuss network stream events hooked up in trace events.
    - @mhdawson: Others from IBM are also interested in deepening use of trace events.
    - @ofrobots will keep tabs on trace_events.

  - **Actions**:
    - [ ] @ofrobots - try to move this forward 

### \[async_hooks\] tracking issue [#29](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/29)


  - **Discussion Summary**
    - Andreas isn't here.

  - **Actions**:  
    - none

### Diagnostics Summit

  - **Discussion Summary**
    - @mhdawson: getting together in person has been helpful in moving initiatives forward as we did with VMs and N-API. Volunteering to host one in Jan or Feb.
    - @markmarron: I'd like to come, makes sense, good timing before spring.
    - @mhdawson: decide what we're going to champion going forward, build interest beyond our group.

  - **Actions**:
    - [ ] @mhdawson  - propose some dates for summit in jan/feb.

### Post-mortem and Diagnostics

  - **Discussion Summary**
    - @mhdawson: should we bring them together? larger scope means more to talk about.
    - @joshgav: we included the post-mortem group last year. need to be sure that we add value for them.
    - @mhdawson: I think they'd like to attend and share more.
    - @markmarron: start by having them attend, see how it evolves.

  - **Actions**:
    - [x] @mhdawson  - create diag-agenda tag for in post-mortem group
    - [x] @mhdawson  - create issue in post-mortem group to bring this up (https://github.com/nodejs/post-mortem/issues/48)
    - [ ] @nodejs/post-mortem  - tag post-mortem issues you want included in diag agenda


### Bi-weekly mettings going forward

  - **Discussion Summary**
     - Schedule bi-weekly meetings on Wednesdays at 2000 UTC starting 11/15.
     
  - **Actions**:
    - [x] @mhdawson  - update node.js calendar
    - [ ] @mike-kaufman - create issues for bi-weekly WG meetings for next couple of months to get these on people's calendar.
