# Node.js Foundation Diagnostics Working Group Meeting 2018-02-07 Minutes

## Attendees
 - @mike-kaufman
 - @watson
 - @qard (Stephen Belanger)
 - @mmarchini
 - @fishrock123 (Jeremiah Senkpiel)
 - @mhdawson (Michael Dawson)


## Links
* **This Meeting**:
  * Minutes:  https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blob/master/wg-meetings/2018-02-21.md
  * Notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ucTWrJuU7YA-PA2DQraqzIjp3mhf0cyx3tmgGiYw-RA/edit?usp=sharing
  * You Tube: http://youtu.be/RyUR6Ec4BQs
* **Previous Meeting**: 
  * Minutes:   https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blob/master/wg-meetings/2018-02-07.md 
  * Notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BFmXdY4X2v_LMSSifyvaf6LzMx6nuZx1pbXUJQUTINU/edit?usp=sharing
  * You Tube:  http://youtu.be/8iu59kEIhzE

## Agenda

Extracted from **diag-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/node

* Integrate C++ AsyncHooks Embedder API with native abstraction [#13254](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/13254)
 - A PR to NAN is merged. Need to revisit when Ali is around.

### nodejs/diagnostics

* Diag WG meeting times? [#158](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/158)
  - two proposed times in issue, 9 AM & 11 AM
  - TSC conflict would occur once every 6 weeks with 9 AM slot
  - moderation conflict would occur infrequently with 11 AM slot
    - moderation meets once a month and is currently out-of-phase with Diag WG meetings
  - **ACTIONS:** 
    - [x] @mike-kaufman - update #158 with proposed 11AM time, people can chime in there with thumbs-up/thumbs-down.  

* Deep dive meeting on CI testing to ensure tools compatibility [#156](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/156)
  - probably too early to deep-dive CI testing
  - believe @joyeecheung owned getting details on this after summit
  - proposal to do deep-dives every other meeting
  - **ACTIONS:** 
    - [x] @mike-kaufman - open issue #168 to get feedback on additional topics here


* Node CPU Profiling Roadmap [#148](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/148)
  - Peter: we had a meeting with v8 about the interface in detail
  - Mmarchini: code events listener api
  - Mmarchini: ability to map addresses to symbols from external profiles
  - Mmarchini: might also be able to cpu profile native frames in the future
  - Mike-kaufman: to clarify, will this be a native module?
  - Mmarchini: yes, already works for <some> stack frames
  - Mike-kaufman: will it be aimed to be merged into core later?
  - Mmarchini: yep


* Eliminate Monkey Patching for Diagnostic Instrumentation  [#134](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/134)
  - no progress yet
  - per summit, plan was to start fresh with something under nodejs organization & iterate from there
  - **ACTIONS:**
    - [ ] @mhdawson to ping on issue with next steps, including, deep dive on diagnostics-channel


* \[async_hooks\] stable API - tracking issue [#124](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/124)
  - no updates

* Diagnostics WG Summit - Feb 12-13, 2018 - Ottawa, ON Canada [#121](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/121)
  - recap tracked in #162
  - issue closed

* Async-context formalization and diagnostics support [#107](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/107)
  - no updates since summit
  - next steps are to update wording in doc to address some confusing that surfaced during summit discussions
  - would like to write some code to produce model via massive monkey-patching effort
    - will work on down-level versions of node
    - will provide substrate of events & DAG to build on 
    - will help people better understand proposed model.

* \[trace_event\] tracking issue [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/84)
  - overlap with recent efforts around conslidating tracing libraries & exposing tracing through JS..


### nodejs/benchmarking

* Perf/Node.js [#168](https://github.com/nodejs/benchmarking/issues/168)
  - overlaps with #148
  - recommend to close this 
