# Node.js Foundation Diagnostics Working Group Meeting 2018-10-17 Minutes

## Attendees
  -  Mike Kaufman
  -  Andreas Madsen: @andreasmadsen
  -  Thomas Watson @watson
  -  Matheus Marchini @mmarchini
  -  Daniel Beckert @Drieger
  -  Michael Dawson @mhdawson
  -  Stephen Belanger @qard
  -  Ali Sheikh @ofrobots
  -  Kelvin Jin @kjin
  -  Natalie Wolf
  -  Bryan Clement

## Links
- **This Meeting**:
  - Minutes:  https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blob/master/wg-meetings/2018-10-17.md
  - Notes:    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l-hbheqECIKO0TMNymMweNX3LvtMxA2Id3dY7qUAoAQ/edit
  - You Tube: http://youtu.be/3linTf2Z1N8
- **Previous Meeting**: 
  - Minutes:  https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blob/master/wg-meetings/2018-10-03.md
  - Notes:    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zPXlGg3-yx5fthXOIw9l66fbFKt6edE_aK7infiyo4I/edit
  - You Tube: http://youtu.be/VzBdlYATQfE

## Agenda

Extracted from **diag-agenda**  labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/diagnostics

  - Session at Collab Summit Vancouver 2018 [#229](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/168)
    - Intro to key initiatives to get broader awareness/interest
    - Async hooks formalization, points at wanting a different API than Async hooks, need to work
    on next steps.
    - [#245](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/245) summarizes next steps for
    port mortem/promises discussion

  - Diagnostics "Best Practices" Guide? - [#211](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/211)
    - Mike from NodeSource has written some content
    - Need to find way to move this forward.
    - Gireesh will setup separate meeting to get this moving forward

  - Diag WG Deep Dives - topics [#168](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/168)
     - @mike-kaufman will try to schedule a deep-dive on async context for sometime in November

  - Expectation about tier of support from diagnostic tools and VMs [#157](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/157)
    - nothing new to report

  - \[async_hooks\] stable API - tracking issue [#124](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/124)
    - no update this week
    - Open PR [21313](github.com/nodejs/node/pull/21313), eliminates need for destroy callback & significantly improves perf
         - Some discussion of reviving async resource.  Goal is to
           remove the destroy hook, or so optional that it does not interfere with performance, PR
           to remove promise from Promise wrap.  Will make escape analysis easier but requires
          work on the V8 side to use escape analysis in emitting the hook
    - Ali need Yang and Matteo to go into more details. Ali will schedule a separate time
    for the discussion.
  
  - Async-context formalization and diagnostics support [#107](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/107)
    - will schedule a deep-dive for november
    - Natalie & Bryan from new relic are going to do some code

  - \[trace_event\] tracking issue [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/84)
    - @ofrobots - crashy/flakiness is mostly fixed.
    - James working on more instrumentation, but need more experimentation from community 
    to what the default on set should be.  Would also be good to have benchmark to make
    sure we donâ€™t degrade base overhead (say 1-2%)

  - Meeting Timeslot [#235](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/235)
    - we should try to find a meeting time that better suits people in different time zones.
    - Michael Dawson asked Gireesh to see if he could drive a bit on this. 
