# Node.js Foundation Diagnostics Working Group Meeting 2018-06-13 Minutes

## Attendees
  - @mhdawson
  - @kjin
  - @ofrobots
  - @mike-kaufman
  - @mrkmarron

## Links
- **This Meeting**:
  - Minutes:  https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blob/master/wg-meetings/2018-06-27.md
  - Notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZCeraqdV4ywxe3ajNuXD0CnGOfLBleSOVqjsKNPyK50/edit
  - You Tube: http://youtu.be/N-cTM71q24o
- **Previous Meeting**: 
  - Minutes:  https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blob/master/wg-meetings/2018-06-13.md
  - Notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_YaY8URKkDsQOwA4Wd3MGAMuQfw7kUMUDtsjptWKe9w/edit
  - You Tube: http://youtu.be/WUzmqf0Uvu4

## Agenda

Extracted from **diag-agenda**  labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/diagnostics

  - Next Diagnostic Summit #201
    - we'll let this evolve organically, whatever works for people
    - removed from Diag WG agenda

  - Diagnostics Channel - Next steps [#180](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/180)
    - @Quard not here
    - now an npm module to support open census on node.js
      - https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opencensus/nodejs
    - this is not using something like Diagnostics Channel, but they'd like it to be

  - Diag WG Deep Dives - topics [#168](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/168)
     - no updates.  From last week:
       - Need to schedule one on async context terminology and tiers of support 
       - **Actions** 
         - @mhdawson  has action for Tiers
         - @mike-kaufman has action for async context deep-dive

  - Expectation about tier of support from diagnostic tools and VMs [#157](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/157)
    - @mhdawson has next steps here. 

  - Node CPU Profiling Roadmap [#148](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/148)
    - per @mmarchini, this is completed.
    - removed from agenda
   
  - \[async_hooks\] stable API - tracking issue [#124](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/124)
    - Not much progress since collab summit
    - two new related PRs:
      - one to support GetCurrentResource API
      - another to suport GetActiveHandles API

  - Async-context formalization and diagnostics support [#107](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/107)
    - Updated PR with examples for generators & async/await. 
    - Also added some text on how concepts will plug into ECMAScript spec, which is looking like a nice set of targeted mods to some key definitions and abstract operations.
    - Still need to update doc with: 
      - how do we simplify traversals
    - Mike will be at node summit to answer questions

  - \[trace_event\] tracking issue [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/84)
    - work happening here to add an intrinsic to v8 to make trave_events APIs available from JS. 
    - Some crashes occurring on shutdown 
    - PR 21335 fixes some of these, but still intermittent errors are occurring on windows in CI runs
    - @ofrobots hasn't been able to repro
