# Node.js Foundation Diagnostics WorkGroup Meeting 2019-04-03

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JxNIUzmuyIw
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/287

## Present

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Thomas Watson (@watson)
* Kelvin Jin (@kjin) 
* Peter Marton (@hekike)

## Agenda

## Announcements
 
*Extracted from **diag-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

  * Thomas, merged doc with minutes from summit.  If you had slides please add to the
    folder.
  * Kelvin will have perfetto code for review by next meeting.  Should likely create fork under    
    repo to start working on it.

  * Peter, Netflix thinking about OpenCensus Client and are talking to Ali/Kelvin about getting
    involved.  Have some suggested changes (making CLS usage optional and working on some 
    child span creation API improvements).

  * Michael interested as well in OpenCensus, Kelvin to set follow up meeting.

### nodejs/node

* Support pausing the debugger on script load [#24687](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/24687)
  * Kelvin to follow up as it may be an orphan

### nodejs/diagnostics

* Post-mortem debugging support inside V8/Node.js [#227](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/227)\
  * Michael take off agenda until there is something to discuss.
* Diagnostics "Best Practices" Guide? [#211](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/211)
  * Peter Marton - starting to work on draft for diagnostic memory leak, and other most
    common use case
    * will contain structure, and will try to share doc by the end of the week
  * Michael also trying to sync up with Gireesh to start on concrete next steps as well. 

* Diag WG Deep Dives - topics [#168](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/168)
  * No new on this front/.

* Expectation about tier of support from diagnostic tools and VMs [#157](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/157)
  * To be driven by best practices.

* \[async_hooks\] stable API - tracking issue [#124](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/124)
  * Nothing new to report this week
  * Need to update the issue based on discussion in the summit.  
    * Focus on CLS instead so that stable API is less important
    * Should we have CLS as strategic initiative, and find a Champion?
      * Thomas will volunteer as champion.

* Async-context formalization and diagnostics support [#107](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/107)
  * Michael K was going to talk to Microsoft team about potential experimentation in v8
  * No update this week.

* \[trace_event\] tracking issue [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/84)
  * Michael did work with IBMer, who is going to look at starting to add more tracepoints.
  * Kelvin will check with Perfetto team on what kind of options for enabling based on categories
    or levels there is.

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.


