# Node.js Foundation Diagnostics WorkGroup Meeting 2019-05-15

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PuxYbvudv7U
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/299

## Present

* Michael Dawson  (@mhdawson)
* Gireesh Punathil (@gireeshpunathil)
* Ali Sheikh (@ofrobots)
* Kelvin Jin (@kjin)
* Matheus Marchini (@mmarchini)
* Ruben Bridgewater (@BridgeAR)
* Eugene Ostroukhov (@eugeneo)
* Peter Marton (@hekike)
* Stephen Belanger (@qard)
 
## Agenda

## Announcements
 
*Extracted from **diag-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

* Mike Kaufman has indicated heâ€™s going to be pretty busy going forward. Would we have any
  other volunteers to chair/lead the meetings?

### nodejs/node

* Support pausing the debugger on script load [#24687](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/24687)
  * can be closed when backported to node. Removed agenda tab

* Async Hooks do not recognize execution contexts created when processing thenables [#22360](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/22360)
  * Matteo has asked Benedick and Maya for new hook, so we could then 
    listen to the new hook. This is similar to hook that was provided for promises so we
    can track them.
  * Next step is hear back from V8 team as to when/if its possible.  Benedict has 
    Indicated that it is potentially possible but not clear if there are resources.  At this
    point what is needed is a volunteer unless Benedict can line up resources. 
  * Next step would be talk about this, doing so at the upcoming summit would probably be 
    most effective. Lets see if we can get it on the agenda for the promises session.

### nodejs/diagnostics

* Proposal to drive Diagnostics WG initiatives through user journeys [#295](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/295)
  * People please read in advance of the summit.
  * Gireesh some of the best practices can be developed in parallel
  * Next step is to discuss at collaborator summit
  * Gireesh/Peter will collaborate on the agenda for the summit.

* Diagnostics "Best Practices" Guide? [#211](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/211)
  * Gireesh asked that people will review/comment on https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/pull/285
  * Gireesh: Table in https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/254, we should
    re-evaluate/update based https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/295.
  * Next step is to discuss at collaborator summit

* Perfetto in Node.js [#277](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/277)
  * Kelvin: talking to Perfetto team, they are working on client library that is more tailored
    to Node.js. 
  * Ali: based on work to integrate into Node.js, the Perfetto team has realized there is more stuff
    that can be added, such as user-friendly trace points (C++ lamda based) instead of macros

* Diag WG Deep Dives - topics [#168](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/168)
  * Nothing on this front.

* \[async_hooks\] stable API - tracking issue [#124](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/124)
  * Nothing new on this front.

* Async-context formalization and diagnostics support [#107](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/107)
  * Nothing new on this front

* \[trace_event\] tracking issue [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/84)
  * Nothing new on that front. Remove from agenda.

* proposal: --inspect-store flag [#298](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/298)
  * Aleksei from Netflix, gave us a runthrough of a number of presentations
  * Related to child process debugging.
  * Open questions, how to enable inspector and then connect to the child process.

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.



